Broken Needle
Bipolar Disorder, War, Drug-Machines, and Being Human
NEROMICER
Jun 18, 2025
LA in flames, mass protests-deportations. Civil War?

Israel bombed Iran last week. The USA contemplates B2 strikes in Iranian nuclear sites. World War III?

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.

freespeech.anonymous@proton.me
password
freespeech.anonymous@proton.me
Subscribe
Strange times. I saw it years ago...

Ten years ago I wrote:

Ishmael and Isaac’s Job-Like Moment

I am death the destroyer of worlds,

The feminine powers, memory, mystery, grace,

Time, the arrow of progress,

Sees fit to age the young and school the wise,

She had a beginning that first Day God said,

“Let there be Light!”

Yes, that was the day the angels stood still,

In awe, they waited for the man to be born,

Adam, of clay and air,

The Spirit breathed into a clay vessel,

Waiting to be filled with the living water,

Job sat tending his flock,

Unaware, a celestial wager was made,

Iblis (Satan) said to God, “What about the just?

The man Job, what about him?

Will he be faithful?

Under pain of death will he scream in agony,

There is no God?”

God, omnipotent and omniscient as he is, or was?

Said, “Let’s do the experiment…”

So, the Book of Job tells that story,

But did you hear the sequel?

The story of Ishmael and Isaac’s Job-like moment?

Today, we see this book being written,

Across the sands of the Wilderness at home and abroad,

In our hearts and in our Minds,

Their struggle is being fought,

… or at least in those who are of two poles,

Bipolar,

One attracted to the Kaaba (Islam) and the other the Cross (Judeo-Christianity),

Wishing to worship the one True God,

I say, “Fuck it!, I will listen to them all,

I am not sure who is right…”

But did Abraham say to worship any rock or tree?

The black stone or the Roman implement of terror?

No! He said worship Him!

I AM WHO I AM! Yahweh, being itself,

So, those random thoughts written in the rush of pen strokes,

Among strangers tell a story of madness and sanity,

I hope we can work together to discern the Truth from Falsehood,

Idols from Isa,

Jesus from Christ,

Revelation from poem…

Broken Needle

Frank sat at his keyboard, his mind warped by the journey. He was tired. Brain fog, bone dead tired. He was home. Clear bird songs behind him in a darkened room. Trying to adapt. To wake with others at the rise of the sun. Forward we go up the mountain. After his fall from grace fifteen years ago, his mother had taken him in. She was going north to visit her boyfriend this morning. He missed his father.

On the inside, chemical poisons ran through his blood. He had not adapted to soma therapy well. His strong-willed nature saw the consequences of what his shrinks and the pigs had done to him. Blew up his belly, made his dick limp. Drove him into the closet. Hidden from view. He was forced to adhere a regimen of medication by his mother in exchange for free room and board. The deal was he would take care of her in her old age. Reasonable. Mothers and sons are inseparable.

Fathers, are another matter entirely. The male half of the human species has always been able to donate their genes and run away. Things to do in this Godforsaken world besides honor commitments and see the course of someone’s life through to the end. It is sad, very sad. Soma therapy could be some way of masking the anger and rage brought about from his leaving. Frank did not know. Nothing was theoretical anymore. It was about survival. Survival mode.

He was not always this way. In fact the early life of Frank was quite privileged. He was born in Boston. His father and mother met at the MIT foreign student office. His father came as a NATO scholar to study physics, and his mother immediately fell in love. She was working as a secretary for academics at this prestigious institution. New England culture instilled into him a uniquely American Puritan work ethic. It was less work hard play hard for Frank, than work makes you holy. This will play in big later…

Moving on from birth, Frank’s family eventually moved away from Boston. His father had found a job in Atlanta, Georgia a busy rapidly growing Southern metropolis. A little bit like the southern end of The Sprawl in William Gibson’s Neuromancer, they followed the trends in economic growth. Every inch of America from Boston to Atlanta was covered in concrete, wired to teeth, and lit up in neon at night. The home life of Frank mirrored the trends of the 1980s he was on a dividing line in history. The end of Pax Americana. Before the times of meth, fentanyl, and crack seeping up the social ladder into the Middle Classes, but far enough into the decay that spiritual signs of decay were apparent. Nihilistic music, what fascists call “degenerate art” both reflect and accelerate it. Propaganda or a cultural mirror, who knows?

Frank was quite verbal at an early age, a toddler that would never shut up. As a preschooler, when asked to draw what he wanted to be as an adult he held up a drawing of a truck. Maybe this would be an omen for the future. Blue collar sentiments in a white collar family. Who really knows how these things work? Kindergarten starts, and Frank enters public schools. He did well in school, but was never the smartest kid in the room most of the time. He could hang with the nerds on tests, often gravitating to their cliques, but he lacked certain emotional intelligences. Unlike his father, he was definitely not a “social climber.” He never really gave much of a fuck about what anyone thought about what he looked like.

Nicole overdosed. Frank was the last person to see her before she died. Two years older, she represented the type of person that he gravitated towards before climbing into the closet. She showed the broken needle to Frank the day before she went onto the afterlife. Released from the hospital recently, prematurely deemed healed from heroin induced sepsis. Bacteria in the black tar heroin purchased from a street dealer at Little Five Points overwhelmed her immune system. She had given him two books that day. A book about outsiders and a book about potty training her son. Her baby daddy would not commit, knocked her up out of wedlock and kept his money. She died in the basement of an “artist’s house” resisting the affections of a man twenty years her senior. I cannot imagine.

Marilyn Manson sings to Frank and me tonight. He says to the Spooky Kids now grown up with kids of their own in “Broken Needle”:

So close your eyes,

It’s only a dream,

When you wake up,

Rinse off all this pain,

And your makeup,

Stare into the mirror,

Apples are always something to fear…

Soma is a gross over simplification of the complexities associated with psychopharmacology. A metaphor coined by Aldous Huxley in “Brave New World.”

All the advantages of Christianity and alcohol; none of their defects.

I am Frank before his fall. I am someone before I became someone else. I am a little schizo, bipolar I with psychotic features. It is easier to talk about my life by splitting it here into multiple persona. For that is what it has been like. Nicole and I shared an upper middle class upbringing. High expectations at home. Rigid frameworks cast around us, gilded bird cages. Piano lessons, safe housing, and secure food were had by us both. We did not starve like many do “across the tracks” or in trailer parks in more rural areas. I cannot recall everything, especially what Nicole went through before we met in 2015. It does not matter. Think about this poem I wrote a year after meeting her. It should explain enough to give insight:

Ghost in The Shell.

Mobile armored riot police, who are you, white man, white woman, who wears, a clean shirt and skirt or suit, drives a nice car, lives in a nice house, somewhere in 30345, do you own a house, have kids to wipe the snot, off as they cry, over spilled, white milk, white milk, spoiled and old, curdled, pasteurized, safe, fenced, clean, no germs, store, bought with green, green is the color, of my pain, my heart, bleeds green, red blood, Damascus, my love, you gave me something, that day, 9/9/2009, the memories of graphs, on my door, weight loss, anorexia, bulimia, vomit, I have to be the best, I have to make it to MIT, Son, you are a machine, Son of mountains, poem, you are a chemist, art, is worthless, chase money, white milk, white milk, it is good for you, clean, safe, those folks on, tha otha side, in that, otha side, that dark side, that black side, that, place where Briarcliff, flows into that Moreland, that place where the music, is loud and real, where, the pain is real, and, tha problems are big, bullets fly fast, and life, is short, that trap, trap, white milk is safe, drink it son and you, will be okay, white, as snow, on the bluff, until Bernie Madoff, does his shit and inverts, tha dollar sign, upside down cash money, that day is the day, white milk turns black, up becomes down, left becomes right, violence of silence, becomes more painful, than a bullet in the brain, or a knife up the wrist, cut up right, cut up left, slit your jugular left and right, and let that blood flow, let the river flow, turn the white milk, black obsidian, dark, as the Kaaba is hard, rock, Kaya, who is, the meaning of that? who am I? Why does this sign, turn upside down, polarity reversal, singularity, hard, and fast, future, trap lords, white, trap lords, black, green money, night vision green, the color of money, the color of my blood, no more red, colors bleed, as an artist is, grows from, the ashes, of those, cold, atoms.

I did well in college, had a high GPA and graduated with a degree in chemistry. Ambitiously following in the footsteps of my father, I went on to earn a Ph.D. in chemistry. Worked with a Nobel Prize winner, hung out around academics. Married a math genius. I did just okay, I did not enjoy the lifestyle. I ended up spending more time rock climbing and reading philosophy and art books that science. Nicole may have picked up on all of that. She tried to bring me out of my head and into my heart. Into my body. Into my senses. Into the present, not the past or the future. That can be a dangerous thing in contemporary society. Existential thoughts are not financially rewarded these days. In fact, they can often be lethal. So much fallenness in our world. So many broken hearts, fallen from awareness of Source. It has become clear to me that Satan runs this world. God kind of just sits back and watches the drama, if you buy into the narrative of the Bible at all. For the most part, I think Nicole did. I do to, but at times I stray.

Nicole saw the persona in me I am calling Frank. She saw someone who actually did care enough to slow down and try to understand what she was going through in her own trauma as a mother of a young child out of wedlock. I think Frank might still be someone I can evolve into. It remains to be seen. Life is long. I tried to learn how to drive a semi-truck last year. I went to school to get my commercial driver’s license (CDL). Nicole, Frank, and I feel that we are living in the End Times as do, who keep going on, driving to work each day to grow families but don’t act on. Many cling onto hope of an afterlife, of the return of the Messiah. I for the most part do not, Frank tries too. Nicole went to meet him. She at least left a son to pass her genes on. I will just dissolve into the ether, my body’s atoms will return to the universe. I am at peace with that…

Last year, I was in the back of the cab of an 18-wheeler training to drive in preparation for the CDL exam. I was starting to mess around with generative artificial intelligence (AI) tools to write a new book. At night, between getting up at 5 AM to drive to truck school and navigating the horrors of Atlanta traffic on my way back home I had been playing with the AI by placing my writings into text to image generators. Frank the Phantom Malone Dream Hacker was a character I was playing with. Frank was everything I was not at the time. Burly, a hunk of a man. Blue collar to the bone, a rouge of the American highway. Draped in flannel and overalls, leather boots and a trucker hat. In spirit, I dabbled with this lifestyle a little bit between meeting Nicole in 2015 and the outset of the pandemic in 2020. I strongly resisted the boundaries I mentioned placed around me by my mother described at the outset of this work. I’d hit the road and live out of my car...

Denying the need for medication, I would slip into mania and hit the road without much of a plan. There was a time when I would sit on social media for hours starting around 2009 and escape reality. A false reality of digital images, words, and sounds was there in the elegantly shaped rectangle of an iPhone. A virtual world associated with escape is what it was with a public facing social reality. Frank sat at his keyboard, escaping into pornography and digital libido sapping smut. He grew to appreciate how bad this had become as an addiction. I screamed at the police that seemed to be appearing periodically at my door to place me in the mental ward because the digital always has a way of bleeding into the real. The algorithms are taking a toll on our youth. Mental health issues are at an all-time high. Body dysmorphia in women, men giving up on relationships because a virtual release is easier on the emotions.

Ultimately, decided against finishing CDL school. Trucks are not for me, but the experience gave birth to Frank. Frank is someone who will grow in time. An alter-ego that I can morph into at any time in the future, should there be a need. I know that he is there, but for now I think there are things that are more important to attend to.

A Few Weeks After Writing “Broken Needle”

The Myth of Mental Illness: Foundations of a Theory of Personal Conduct

Thomas Szasz

I feel very hopeful this morning, vastly different from the last entry into this manuscript. The previous entry was composed around the time of my having to go the court to face criminal charges for battery and disorderly conduct. I am thankful for getting through this experience. Horrible experience in a group home, a bedbug infested shithole run by a greedy landlord interested in extracting social security checks from the disabled and manipulating caregivers. The worse kind of grifters run many corners of the mental health system.

Today, I met with my old college advisor David Lynn at Emory University. I gained the confidence to go back to my college and work on my recovery. I brought printed out copies of my four poetry/art books from my journey through the mental health system. I explained that I had found a book called Gorilla and the Bird: A Memoir of Madness and a Mother’s Love by Zack McDermott at the Decatur Peer and Wellness Center. I shared the book with him, and explained that it perfectly captured the basic essence of my story with my journey through the mental health care system for bipolar I disorder. Dave and I went over some poems and photographs from my four books, along with looking at some science papers that I had included in the fold of the books. Of them all, the one at the top is the once most central to today.

I explained to him that I have a new-found, more mature perspective on these documents. I now feel that they offer some great insights into how to adapt my life to living a stable life free of any interactions with the mental health and legals systems. Through great searching and personal struggle, I have realized that healing takes many different components. One of the key principles I adhere to is that we need to work on healing ourselves with the knowledge that our personal journeys can inspire healing in others. I mentioned to Dave today in our conversation my developing interest in the practice of law. As mentioned in Broken Needle, I have a Ph.D. in chemistry. My brain fragmented with a psychotic break in 2010 and I became overtaken by a great change in my ability to operate in society according to generally accepted social norms. It is not as simple as, “Just take your meds!” Which ones?!

Looking back at the first page of the first of my poetry/art books I can see what was interpreted by psychiatrists as bipolar mania. My mother has called me an anarchist. Perhaps I am. That puts me well outside the lines of traditional politics. I gravitated to obscure environmental causes in my psychosis leaving the comfort of home to protest oil pipelines. It’s for this reason that I do not protest any more. I have served on the front lines. Done my time there, now it’s time to heal and teach what I discovered there to others to carry on the struggle for the “little guy.” None of this was inherently “mad,” but even there I was ostracized. I was kicked out of a Native American led protest camp. So it became clear, even among activists I was anomalous.

Actually breaking a law was something I flirted with for years. My social media posts around the time of the oil pipeline protests aroused the suspicions of the FBI, but I was never charged. Instead, I was placed in a mental ward. Mental wards are coercive penal entities, and I know that I needed to avoid behavior that lead to them. However, I lapse on this. We are not perfect. I feel certain ways about the times we live in. You can see these feelings in the passage above and in many of my poems. I think that things are getting so bad in America that we need to scrap the old and rethink our foundations. I am older now, and am tired of being swayed by over active emotional waves, up and down, up and down. It is exhausting. However, without this roller coaster I would not have learned anything.

I want to use reason and logic, together with emotions, to create things that can enact positive changes. I am no longer interested in someone else's problems. I want to save myself, and those like me. Whoever has been forced into the mental health system, often against their wills by their society and loved ones. This means gaining a better knowledge of writing about laws that touch upon the lives of anyone who has received a mental health diagnosis. Go back to chemistry, restore my ability to reason about the subtleties of soma. Soma is a necessary poison. Just directly stating this is empowering...

At the Peer and Wellness Center, a friend said to watch:

Twilight Zone – Time Enough it Lasts

Post apocalyptic...

Best to work on fleshing out my chances at a good rest of my life here on earth by working on the little details that make life better...

Simplify.

Write.

I see no escape from the realities of life. Better to relax and commit to improving what is possible to fix, and forgive what is out of your control. It is not theoretical. I do not believe in performing, or wearing a mask. My life is an open book. I am transparent for all to see. For the youth to see what can happen. For the older generations to see what their mistakes have created in my generation. I am 44, middle-aged. Not too old, not too young. It is time to shed falsehoods and commit to being the person that God created me to be. On bright mornings like today, with the birds outside chirping. With my cat within sight on a newly assembled cat tree. My mother resting, getting sufficient sleep. I am confident in my abilities as a man to provide. Soon, I will explain more how new light is shining into the darkness. Existential despair has an antidote, expression and reflection. Creation.

I know bipolar I disorder has antidotes. It has treatments. There is Hope!

More to come...

Time reversal, a dream we all have. Reverse the chaos back to to Alpha point. As we speed forward to the Omega Point, fast and faster you need to chill and stop giving a fuck about anything but the Summit, world peace and justice. The short version of the Serenity Prayer is not Fuck You, it is Fuck it, I love everything! That is the Zen way, drive back to raw being. Consciousness embedded in the moment, a finite moment on a tiny Blue Marble in a total Void in relationship with stars…

Thanks for reading! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.

freespeech.anonymous@proton.me
password
freespeech.anonymous@proton.me
Subscribe
